LUKE LAPPALA
Seattle, WA 98109 | 206-313-7520 | lukelappala@gmail.com | www.linkedin.com/in/luke-lappala


DIRECTOR OF COMMUNICATIONS | MEDIA RELATIONS STRATEGIST 
Amplifying brand value and visibility in the technology industry through impactful narratives, media strategies, and executive communications

Accomplished communications strategist, setting vision, securing top-tier media coverage, and developing narratives that resonate across earned, owned, and paid channels. Skilled in shaping multi-channel campaigns, crafting executive messaging, and translating complex data into compelling stories. Proven ability to drive thought leadership initiatives, align cross-functional teams, and build strong stakeholder relationships. Adept at leveraging data-driven insights to enhance organizational voice and reach diverse audiences. Passionate about aligning communications strategies with future-forward goals in technology and innovation. Adaptable in fast-paced environments with changing goals and priorities.

Areas of Expertise:
Communication Strategies | Public Relations (PR) | Media Relations | Strategic Communications | Executive Thought Leadership Data-Driven Storytelling | Campaign Management | Project Management | Team Leadership | Cross-Functional Collaboration | Event & Speaker Program Management | Internal Communications | Copywriting | Social Media | CRM | Agency Management

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

CODING DOJO, Bellevue, WA
Director of Communications & Chief of Staff to the CEO		2019 – 2024
Collaborated with CEO to craft impactful speeches, presentations, and communications strategies for internal and external engagements. Led the Communications department and core efforts (product launches, reviews, referrals, brand management, employee engagement) to scale the from $10-$36M in annual revenue. Directed all customer relationship management and community initiatives for the global alumni network. Managed critical projects and partnerships with international and domestic universities, enterprises, and philanthropies.  
• Led PR strategy development and execution, securing 700+ media placements in diverse outlets, including technology publications (Information Week, TechCrunch, ZDNet) and consumer platforms (Good Morning America, USA Today).
• Collaborated directly with the CEO to develop executive messaging frameworks, positioning leadership as industry experts through bylines, podcasts, and speaking engagements.
• Established cross-functional relationships with product, sales, and customer success teams, identifying customer champions and amplifying success stories in multi-channel campaigns to position the organization as a thought leader in tech education and workforce development 
• Managed $500K customer story video shoot with 60+ stakeholders across the U.S., producing 10 brand videos that became core paid media assets, driving millions of views and thousands of new customers.
• Oversaw project management for $80M acquisition of company by Perdoceo Education Corporation.

PROTOCOL PUBLIC RELATIONS, Seattle, WA
Founder & CEO 		2018 – 2019
Built and executed public relations strategies for emerging technology and blockchain sector clients, increasing brand visibility and credibility. Developed and managed strategic relationships with stakeholders, facilitating brand growth and partnerships. Grew book of business as a solo practitioner via word of mouth, networking events, and client referrals. 
• Created thought leadership content and media pitches to position clients as industry leaders, increasing credibility and securing targeted media coverage in financial and business publications (MarketWatch, Seeking Alpha, VentureBeat) as well as tech and industry platforms (CryptoSlate, GeekWire, Silicon Angle).
• Created and executed strategic communications plans that aligned with client business goals, driving measurable outcomes in brand recognition, as well as customer and partner engagement. 

SCOTTEVEST, Ketchum, ID
Director of Communications 		2016 – 2018
Spearheaded PR strategy, generating 370+ media placements in 2 years and elevating brand awareness in key markets. Conducted event and tradeshow marketing.
• Directed email marketing campaigns to 230,000 global subscribers, increasing engagement 23%.
• Implemented affiliate marketing, growing engaged partners 72% and enhancing digital reach.
• Led crisis communication efforts, driving rapid and effective responses during national crises to protect brand integrity through strategic talking points and communication plans during resulting media interviews and customer engagements.


MARTIN LEVY PUBLIC RELATIONS, Seattle, WA 
Account Executive 		2012 – 2016
Led high-impact PR and communications campaigns for technology, consumer electronics, and enterprise clients, consistently securing coverage in top-tier media outlets. Executed targeted media relations strategies, significantly boosting client visibility and brand recognition in competitive markets.

EDUCATION

WASHINGTON STATE UNIVERSITY, Pullman, WA
Bachelor of Arts, Communications – Public Relations Emphasis

TECHNOLOGY SKILLS

Cision | Meltwater | Muckrack | JustReachOut | Microsoft Suite | Google Suite | Google Analytics | Hubspot | Wordpress Mailchimp | Sprout Social | Hootsuit | Canva | Figma | Claude | ChatGPT | Hunter | PR Newswire | Business Wire  
